the power filter on this tank recently
has started to make pretty loud noise
it's it's pretty annoying
I'm going to fix this and show you how I
do it I'm going to pull this filter off
the tank and then we take a look inside
okay I've got the power filter off the
tank this is an aqua clear 70 I really
like these aqua clear filters they have
a nice big media compartment that is
very versatile way more versatile than
power filters that have the like
all-in-one kind of cartridge which are
convenient but you don't have as much
flexibility in what you put in the
filter these filters also generally are
very quiet and don't require a whole lot
of maintenance but sometimes they do
start to make noise all power filters
can start to make noise after a while
and I've noticed it's particularly a
problem in tanks with sand substrates
that tend to get stirred up a lot which
is what this tank is on it's on a tank
of aquarium with sand substrate and fish
that like the burry in the sand and what
happens the sand gets into the into the
motor housing and causes problems Mo's
are motor housing is back here you
simply twist it off while you have it
off it's a good idea to check out the
o-ring on this that keeps a nice tight
watertight seal check make sure it's not
dried out and cracked it's an easy fix
you can get a new over and pop it on no
problem it's a good idea to check them
out they do last a long time ten years
or more if it's on a fresh water tank
maybe a little less on a saltwater tank
but it's good idea to check them out
while you have it off what happens the
sand can get into the filter and gets
them down in there and can cause some
problems with the in power sometimes
these things are just really gunked-up
they're coding in diatoms or algae or
just some ohm and that can cause the
impeller of the function improperly so
just a cleaning out of the impeller and
the motor housing is often enough to get
these things working
these here's the impeller you can pull
it right out you want to clean in there
nice and good what you can see is this
impeller has ridges that have formed
from sand particles getting in here
spinning around and wearing out this
magnet part what happens is that it's
wears away the magnet so it makes it
less powerful and it makes the impeller
imbalanced and it rattles around inside
the motor housing and causes lots of
noise so I have a new impeller and this
up magnets are thrashing together the
old one with the ridges you can
definitely feel them the new one nice
and smooth magnet so I had to get this
online I have seen up in pet stores
before but I couldn't find one around
here so I got it online and simply just
slide it back on to the shaft like that
it spins pretty well we'll put this back
on the power filter and get it back on
the tank so to put the motor housing
back on have it oriented like that with
the tab pointing inwards push it up spin
it to lock it into place like that I'll
put the tube back on fill back with
water put on the tank and fire it up and
see how it sounds I've got the filter
back on the tank but it's still really
loud so I think it's the motor itself
that is the problem so I'm going to pull
this thing back off and replace it with
another motor and see if that doesn't
fix the problem okay inside this motor
there's an an axle that you can pull out
with the pliers it's in there pretty
good and then the the impeller slides
and then spins on this axle well this
axle on this noisy filter I hope you can
see this whole region here is worn out
there are grooves in there and
everything and then if I spin this and
if you can see this or not but this end
especially is not worn out evenly it's
one side is much more worn out than the
other side and I think that is what's
really causing the problem the impeller
is sitting on this and it's not rotating
on a nice even smooth axle it's rattling
around and making all sorts of noise so
it's this that needs to be replaced
which can't just buy these separately
you gotta they come with the motor so I
might have to buy a new motor to look
through my parts and see maybe I might
have another axle that I can replace but
I think this is the root of the problem
although the old impeller was was pretty
bad off so I got a new motor you can go
out and buy these motors separately or
you can do what I did and get one from a
different aqua clear model because all
these aqua Clare's the aqua color 20 30
50 and 70 and maybe even the 90 I'm not
though all use the same motor unit the
only difference is the impeller so I had
an aqua clear 20 then I took the motor
out of I'm going to take away this
impeller which you can see has four
little fins the aqua clear 70 has six
fins and they are slightly larger than
the fins on the 20 ok I'm just going to
slide the my new aqua color 70 impeller
into the aqua clear 20 motor and then
reattach it to the filter see it's just
fine it's rated the same you can go to
aqua Claire's website the parts I have
the same number all the motors so it's a
good way to fix a larger aqua Claire is
just buying a cheaper one and or getting
a cheaper one from the key from somebody
and I'm placing the motor and we'll put
this back on the tank and it should be
good as new so I've got the filter back
on the tank and it is silent
it's nice let you take a look and listen
here
so there you have it by replacing the
impeller and replacing the motor unit
with a motor unit from a smaller cheaper
aqua clear unit I now have this aqua
clear 70 running silently it's quite
nice if you liked this video found it
helpful don't forget to like it
and you can also subscribe for some
other cool stuff thanks for watching